# Fusing Skeleton-Based Scene Flow for Gesture Recognition on Point Clouds

Dynamic gesture recognition has recently aimed to learn static and motion features by exploiting point clouds from depth images. However, the weak correlation between some pixels and hand gestures makes the extracted dynamic features redundant. When search points and adjacent points in a larger feature space maintain movement consistency, more detailed movements are ignored. To improve the ability to capture fine-grained dynamic features and improve the relevance of point clouds and gestures, we propose a novel method of fusing skeleton-based scene flow for gesture recognition (FSS-GR) for higher recognition accuracy. Firstly, skeletons are automatically converted into pairs of point clouds. Based on the time interval between source and target point clouds and scene flow measurement indicators, four scene flow estimators are obtained. To minimize the additional cost of capturing fine-grained information, scene flow is used as datasets before fusion. Then, the coarse-grained dynamic features from depth images are fused with the obtained scene flow using different strategies, so that the flexible tradeoffs between model complexity and recognition performance are available for various scenarios. The comprehensive experiments and ablation study on SHREC’17 and DHG demonstrate that FSS-GR achieves a higher accuracy than state-of-the-art works.

论文链接：https://www.mdpi.com/3161638
github项目连接：https://github.com/shawn-fei/fss-gr
